feat: coding in local Visual Studio Code (#77)
eclipse-che/blog: _posts/2025-02-27-use-desctop-visual-studio-code.adoc

---

> title: "Develop in local Visual Studio Code using Eclipse Che as a remote Cloud Development Environment"

Reviewer: how about "Working locally in the cloud: Develop in local Visual Studio Code with Eclipse Che as your Cloud Development Environment" as the title?

Reviewer 2: nice, really like the catchy "Working locally in the cloud" pitch 👍

Author: @deerskindoll I've changed the title, thanks!

layout: post
author: Vitaliy Gulyy
description: >-
   Use your local Visual Studio Code as an editor for a Che workspace
categories: []
keywords: ['Visual Studio Code', 'Eclipse Che editor']
slug: /@vgulyy/use-desktop-visual-studio-code
---

== Introduction

> Eclipse Che provides developers with a web version of the link:https://github.com/microsoft/vscode[Visual Studio Code OSS] editor, which includes most of the desktop version features. However, the transition to cloud development can be quite unusual for developers.
> With link:https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/command-line[Visual Studio Code Command Line Interface (CLI)] you can create a tunnel that allows you to connect your familiar local Visual Studio Code to your workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Eclipse Che provides developers with a web version of the link:https://github.com/microsoft/vscode[Visual Studio Code OSS] editor, which includes most of the desktop version features. The transition to cloud development can feel quite unusual for developers, but Eclipse Che has a feature that will help you feel right at home immediately.
With link:https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/command-line[Visual Studio Code Command Line Interface (CLI)] you can create a tunnel that allows you to connect your familiar local Visual Studio Code to your workspace.
```

== Connecting Visual Studio Code desktop to a new workspace

You can connect your local Visual Studio Code to a new workpace with a few clicks.
First, create a workspace on the Che Dashboard and choose Visual Studio Code (desktop) as your editor.

image::/assets/img/use-desktop-visual-studio-code/select-editor.png["Create Workspace"]

> {nbsp} +

Reviewer 2: @deerskindoll @vitaliy-guliy if you would like to have image descriptions those should be a separate entries see https://github.com/eclipse-che/blog/blob/main/_posts/2024-11-26-in-kubernetes-we-trust.adoc?plain=1#L22

Author: Honestly, I would leave the images as they are, without description.

Reviewer: that's perfectly fine with me. it's just something I noticed and wanted to point out.

image::/assets/img/use-desktop-visual-studio-code/open-visual-studio-code.png["Tunnel to the workspace"]
{nbsp} +

Click *Open in Visual Studio Code desktop* to open your workspace in the desktop version of Visual Studio Code. Confirm opening the desktop application by clicking Open Visual Studio Code - URL Handler.

image::/assets/img/use-desktop-visual-studio-code/confirm-opening-vscode-desktop.png["Open in Visual Studio Code desktop"]
{nbsp} +

Wait for the local Visual Studio Code and allow the *Remote - Tunnels* extension to open the URI.

[NOTE]
====
If Visual Studio Code opens your workspace with a delay, open the *Remote Explorer* view.
====

== Connecting Visual Studio Code desktop to a running workspace

=== Prepare your local Visual Studio Code.

First, you need to install both link:https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.remote-server[Remote - Tunnels] and link:https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.remote-explorer[Remote Explorer] extensions to your local Visual Studio Code. It will allow you to connect to a remote machine via a secure tunnel.

=== Install Visual Studio Code CLI.

> Then you need to install Visual Studio Code CLI in your workspace. Open a terminal and run the following command to install Visual Studio Code CLI in the `/checode` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, you need to install Visual Studio Code CLI in your workspace. Open a terminal and run the following command to install Visual Studio Code CLI in the `/checode` directory.
```

[source, code]
----
curl 'https://code.visualstudio.com/sha/download?build=stable&os=cli-alpine-x64' --location -o /tmp/code.tar.gz && \
tar -xvzf /tmp/code.tar.gz --directory=/checode
----

[IMPORTANT]
====
If you don't have `gzip` installed in your workspace, you won't be able to install the CLI using the command above.

In this case you need to:

. link:https://code.visualstudio.com/Download[download CLI] for *Linux x64* architecture to your desktop

. unpack and upload the extracted binary to your workspace root

. move the binary to `/checode` directory and make it executable by `mv $PROJECT_SOURCE/code /checode && chmod +x /checode/code`

> ====

Reviewer 2: @vitaliy-guliy side question, should we create an issue to improve this flow?

Reviewer 2: ok, we probably need to create an issue for that and discuss on the sprint planning next week

> By placing the Visual Studio Code CLI binary in the `/checode` directory, we will preserve it if the workspace is restarted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By placing the Visual Studio Code CLI binary in the `/checode` directory, you will preserve it if the workspace is restarted.
```

---
title: "Working locally in the cloud: Develop in local Visual Studio Code with Eclipse Che as your Cloud Development Environment"
layout: post
author: Vitaliy Gulyy
description: >-
   Use your local Visual Studio Code as an editor for a Che workspace
categories: []
keywords: ['Visual Studio Code', 'Eclipse Che editor']
slug: /@vgulyy/use-desktop-visual-studio-code
---

== Introduction

Eclipse Che provides developers with a web version of the link:https://github.com/microsoft/vscode[Visual Studio Code OSS] editor, which includes most of the desktop version features. The transition to cloud development can feel quite unusual for developers, but Eclipse Che has a feature that will help you feel right at home immediately.

> With link:https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/command-line[Visual Studio Code Command Line Interface (CLI)] you can create a tunnel that allows you to connect your familiar local Visual Studio Code to your workspace.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With link:https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/command-line[Visual Studio Code Command Line Interface (CLI)] you can create a tunnel that allows you to connect your local Visual Studio Code, an editor you may already be familiar with, to your CDE.
```

== Connecting Visual Studio Code desktop to a new workspace

> You can connect your local Visual Studio Code to a new workpace with a few clicks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can connect your local Visual Studio Code to a new CDE with a few clicks.
```

> First, create a workspace on the Che Dashboard and choose Visual Studio Code (desktop) as your editor.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
First, create a CDE from the Che Dashboard and choose Visual Studio Code (desktop) as your editor.
```

Author: I suppose leaving `workspace` here will be more clear for the users. WDYT?

Reviewer 3: Sounds good, it makes sense because the scerenshots (dashboard, code server) say `workspace`

image::/assets/img/use-desktop-visual-studio-code/select-editor.png["Create Workspace"]
{nbsp} +

Wait for the login page to appear and log in with your Microsoft or GitHub account.
Click the *Copy & Continue to Microsoft* or *Copy & Continue to GitHub* button to copy the authentication code to the clipboard and to open the authenticating pop-up.

image::/assets/img/use-desktop-visual-studio-code/login-with-provider.png["Login with GitHub account"]
{nbsp} +

> Complete the authentication process, paste in the code from the clipboard, and follow the instructions. On successful authentication, close the pop-up and wait for the tunnel to your workspace to be created.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Complete the authentication process, paste the code from the clipboard, and follow the instructions. On successful authentication, close the pop-up and wait for the tunnel to your workspace to be created.
```

image::/assets/img/use-desktop-visual-studio-code/open-visual-studio-code.png["Tunnel to the workspace"]
{nbsp} +

> Click *Open in Visual Studio Code desktop* to open your workspace in the desktop version of Visual Studio Code. Confirm opening the desktop application by clicking Open Visual Studio Code - URL Handler.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Click *Open in Visual Studio Code desktop* to open your CDE in the desktop version of Visual Studio Code. Confirm opening the desktop application by clicking Open Visual Studio Code - URL Handler.
```

image::/assets/img/use-desktop-visual-studio-code/confirm-opening-vscode-desktop.png["Open in Visual Studio Code desktop"]
{nbsp} +

> Wait for the local Visual Studio Code and allow the *Remote - Tunnels* extension to open the URI.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Wait for the local Visual Studio Code to load and allow the *Remote - Tunnels* extension to open the URI.
```

=== Install Visual Studio Code CLI.

Next, you need to install Visual Studio Code CLI in your workspace. Open a terminal and run the following command to install Visual Studio Code CLI in the `/checode` directory.

[source, code]
----
curl 'https://code.visualstudio.com/sha/download?build=stable&os=cli-alpine-x64' --location -o /tmp/code.tar.gz && \
tar -xvzf /tmp/code.tar.gz --directory=/checode
----

[IMPORTANT]
====
If you don't have `gzip` installed in your workspace, you won't be able to install the CLI using the command above.

In this case you need to:

. link:https://code.visualstudio.com/Download[download CLI] for *Linux x64* architecture to your desktop

. unpack and upload the extracted binary to your workspace root

. move the binary to `/checode` directory and make it executable by `mv $PROJECT_SOURCE/code /checode && chmod +x /checode/code`
====

> By placing the Visual Studio Code CLI binary in the `/checode` directory, you will preserve it if the workspace is restarted.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By placing the Visual Studio Code CLI binary in the `/checode` directory, it will persist even if the workspace is restarted.
```

=== Create a secure tunnel to the Cloud Development Environment.

> Open workspace terminal and launch the Visual Studio Code CLI with the command below.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Open the workspace terminal and launch the Visual Studio Code CLI with the command below.
```
